In the last lecture we saw how we can retrieve our route parameters and it was working fine.
But there are ways to break this.
There are cases where this approach will not work and it will show you a typical example on our users
component.
We right now always saw that we have the user id and name we passed on our you r l now any year.
Let me quickly add a router link so I'll add a horizontal line and then add an anchor tag where I remove
the ref and instead say router link and now I will actually use this syntax with the square brackets
where I pass an array and I want to slash users an absolute path to load the correct route.
The second element will be the ID.
So this might be lets say 10 could be a number could be a string and then a name but say Anna.
So this will now construct a route which is slash users slash 10 slash Anna.
And this is where does array approach might be better because you can really structure this really well
and we will soon see how you can even make this more dynamic.
So here I would say load enter ID 10 something like that any text you like.
And now let's see this here we get a link on our currently loaded page with user's free Max.
And if I click this you'll see that you are Elbaz updated.
Now its users Tanah but the text here wasn't and this is not a bug.
This is the default behavior and what is happening here.
Do you have an idea the behavior here as I just mentioned it's not a bug.
We load our data by using this snapshot object on the route.
Now if we load a new round what happens angler has a look at our app modules finds the witing route
here.
Hopefully loads the component initializes the component and gives us the data by accessing the snapshot
Now deadly happens if we haven't been on this component before.
But if we click this link which is on the user component Well then the or else still change us but we
already are on the component which should get loaded.
So angular cleverly doesn't really instantiate this component.
That would only cost us performance.
Why would it really render a component.
We already are on or you might say because the data we want to load changed but angular doesn't know
and it's good that by default it won't recreate the whole component and destroy the old one if we already
are on that component.
Still of course you want to get access to the updated data and you can it's fine to use a snapshot for
the first initialization but to be able to react to subsequent changes we need a different approach.
In our types of code an engine in it here let's say after we as scientists initial set up we can use
our Raut object and instead of using the snapshot here there is some Perens property on this route object
itself.
Now we didn't use that before we had to snapshot in between.
What's the difference.
Parents here is an observable and now observables is something I will come to right after the section
where we will take a closer look.
Basically observables are a feature added by some other third party package not by a singular but heavily
used by angular which allow you to easily work with asynchronous tasks.
And this is an asynchronous task because the parameters of your currently loaded route might change
at some point in the future if the user clicks this link.
But you don't know when you didn't know if and you don't know how long it will take.
So therefore you can't block your code and wait for this to happen here because it might never happen.
So observable is an easy way to subscribe to some event which might happen in the future to then execute
some code when it happens without having to wait for it now.
And that is what parents is it is such an observable and as the name implies we can observe it and we
do so by subscribing to it.
So you can call the SUBSCRIBE method on it and does is still called on parents.
I'm just bringing it in a new line to make it to make it easier to read and now subscribe can take three
functions you pass your ass arguments.
Now the first one is the most important one you're able to be fired when ever new data is sent routed
observable sort of put in easier words when ever the parameters change in this use case.
So then this first argument which should be a function year is executed.
I will use that iOS 6 arrow function.
And here we will get the updated parents as an argument and you can set this up type Perrin's doesn't
really make a difference has to be imported from an angle router then though.
But anyways parents will always be an object just like here on the snapshot which holds the parameters
you defined in the road as properties.
So in the function body of this arrow function of the function which gets executed whenever the parameter
changes here we can now update our user object and we can say this user ID should now be Perrin's ID
referring to the parents who passed here and the same of course for the name abse with a semi-colon
at the end of course.
So this will now update our user object when ever the parameter change.
Thats why its inside of this callback and if this anonymous function passed resubscribed method here
this code will not be executed when engine that runs through this code will.
So the subscription will be set up but only if the parameters then change.
Only in this case we will exchange them in our user object.
That is why we have this change in place.
If we now go back to 3 and Max we see free and Maxxis displays year but if Now click the link it correctly
updates here.
Q Because our observable fire is and we don't retrieve the updated parameters and assign them to our
user object.
And this therefore actually is the approach you should take to be really safe against changes not being
reflected in your template.
Now if you know that component you're on may never be reloaded from within that component as we're doing
it here.
Then you might not need desire does addition.
You might simply use a snapshot because you know your component will 100 percent of the time be recreated
when it is reached because there's no other way of reaching it there is no way of reaching it while
it's being on that component.
If you know that you don't need to subscribe in all average cases make sure to use as a broad to get
informed about any changes in your route parameters.